ndig help, version 1.0
last updated 31 December 2015

1) Where am I?

You've connected to _ndig_, a chat server loosely based on the old Haven
software originally written by Chris Eleveld (aka The Insane Hermit) at Purdue
University in 1991. As of this writing, a good summary of havens can be found at
http://www.rootaction.net/~jillian/haven/haven/text/havenfaq.txt.

2) What can I do?

You can chat with other online users, as a whole or in smaller groups, and you
can explore the world other users have built, and build new areas of your own.

3) Okay, how do I chat?

It's pretty simple. By default, any text you type will be sent to every user who
is in the same room as you as soon as you hit return. If you send "hello,
world!" it will appear to other users (and yourself) like this:

  (3, guest53613) hello, world!

4) Is "guest53613" my name? That's gross.

Yes, the default usernames are designed to make you want to change them. To
change your name, you'll send a _command_. There are several available
chat-related commands, all of which start with a dot. For example, the command
to change your username is ".name", which can be abbreviated to ".n" if you're
in a hurry. It works like this:

  .name Gonzo the Magnificent
  > Name changed.

Now, if you send "I am magnificent!", you and others in your room will see:

  (3, Gonzo the Magnificent) I am magnificent!

You cannot use the same name as another logged-in user, and names are
case-insensitive.

5) What's the "3" for?

When you first connected, you were assigned a _line number_. Line numbers start
at 0 (reserved for the server admin) and go up to 60, and each user gets a
different one. They are used in some _commands_ to quickly identify a user. For
example, if someone on line 14 is bothering you, you can _gag_ them by sending
the command ".gag 14" (or ".g14" for short), after which you will not receive
any messages sent by the user on that line.

You cannot change your line number while you're logged in, but if you log out
and log back in, your line number might change. You can also use line numbers as
a rough estimate of how long someone has been online, since they're always
assigned lowest-number-first (but see the .who and .whois commands for detailed
info).

6) How can I tell what room I'm in?

When you first connect, you are added to the Home room. Unless you've moved,
you're there now. But in any case, the _look_ command (.look or just .l) will
show you the name and description of the room you're in, plus a list of visible
exits from that room.

7) Exits?

Yep. Each exit has a name, which is usually (but not always) a cardinal
direction. To move to another room, use the _move_ command, which is of the
form >direction (for example, >north to follow the "north" exit from a room).

8) Got it. What other commands are there?

Here's the list. Note that all commands may be abbreviated, so long as the
abbreviation is unambiguous. So ".hu" will work for ".hush", but ".h" won't work
because I don't know if you want ".hush" or ".help".

<HELP-COMMANDS.TXT>

9) Sometimes I get a message while I'm typing and the text breaks up across
lines in funny ways.

You're probably using telnet to connect. You might find that you prefer
dedicated client software like Ken Keys' TinyFugue, which keeps the input and
output buffers separate. See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TinyFugue.

10) What happened, I think I missed some of the help you just sent me?

This can happen if you're using telnet (try scrolling up) or if you haven't
enabled paging in TinyFugue (try "/more on").
